During this event, many individuals slept on bare mattresses in opposition to a fellow participant being locked in a dark closet. Several individuals took up fire extinguishers to use as weapons in this event, while another figure in it was nicknamed “John Wayne” due to his sadistic demeanor. After Christina Maslach questioned this event’s morality, it was terminated after only six days. When this experiment began, coin flips assigned participants as either guards or prisoners. For 10 points, name this experiment conducted by Philip Zimbardo in the basement of its namesake California university.

This man wrote a cantata about Druids practicing pagan rituals in The First Walpurgis Night, as well as the opera Camacho’s Wedding. A violin solo rather than an orchestral tutti opens this composer’s Violin Concerto in E minor. Another of this composer’s works includes the songs “The Removal of the Spells” and “Ye spotted snakes,” and in honor of the Augsburg Confession, he wrote his Reformation symphony. This composer was inspired by his visit to Fingal’s Cave to write the Hebrides Overture. For 10 points, name this composer who included a famous wedding march in his incidental music to A Midsummer Night’ s Dream.

The complexometric form of this process depends on the formation of coordinate covalent bonds to metal cations. The Winkler test uses this process to detect dissolved oxygen, while another type of this process is performed on colloids and emulsions, and seeks to find those substances’ zeta potentials. A crucial step in this process involves analyzing a sigmoid graph and finding its inflection point. This process utilizes a burette, which adds a reactant to an analyte until the equivalence point is reached. For 10 points, name this procedure used to find the concentration of a solution.

When an old man offers $350 to two men in this novel, one character says, “‘Jesus Christ! I bet we could swing her!’” A retired boxer in this novel often keeps a glove of vaseline on his left hand, and is extremely protective of his wife. In a story that one character enjoys hearing, he “lives off the fatta’ the land” and when it rains, he says “the hell with goin’ to work.” This novel’s title is based on a line from a Burns poem. The aforementioned wife “gives the eye” to many of the employees on the ranch, and her neck is accidentally broken by one of this work’s protagonists. For 10 points, name this novel by John Steinbeck that centers on George and Lennie.

This man’s attempt to stop a wind farm from being built near a piece of his property was dismissed by five British Supreme Court justices. Scottish Prime Minister Alex Salmond referred to this man as “three times a loser.” He announced his bid for the presidency in 2000 on Larry King Live, and in 1988, he made a deal to acquire the Taj Mahal Casino, which generated large debt and filed for bankruptcy. This man infamously called himself “a nice person,” and after the San Bernardino shootings, proposed a ban on Muslims entering the U.S.. For 10 points, name this former host of Celebrity Apprentice, the current Republican frontrunner in the 2016 Presidential race.

This work discusses Hannibal’s “inhuman cruelty” toward his army, as well as the “criminal virtue” of Agathocles of Syracuse. A chapter of this work describes Moses as a conqueror due to his status as an armed prophet. This work begins by discussing the distinction between “mixed” states and purely new states. It denounces mercenaries as purely money-driven, and portrays fortune as a woman who must be beaten. This work states that an effective ruler must emulate both the lion and the fox, and praises Cesare Borgia as one of those rulers. Dedicated to a member of the Medici family, for 10 points, name this political treatise by Niccolo Machiavelli.

Early in his political career, this man signed the Mulford Act, and he received controversy after designating deceased Waffen-SS members as “victims.” After a terrorist attack on a Berlin discotheque, this man ordered the bombing of Libya. This signer of the INF Treaty gave the “Morning in America” speech, and proposed an elaborate space-based missile defense system that became ridiculed as “Star Wars.” This leader’s namesake economic policy became closely associated with supply-side economics. For 10 points, name this Republican U.S. president who ordered Mikhail Gorbachev to “tear down this wall,” the predecessor of George H. W. Bush.

After the protagonist breaks into a hospital room in this film, a patient puts on her glasses and tells him to “stop.” At its beginning, a man is forced to drink bourbon after being kidnapped in an attempt to stage a drunk driving accident after he is mistaken for “George Kaplan.” This film’s opening credits are projected along the side of a New York City glass skyscraper. During its climax, Leonard pursues its main characters down Mount Rushmore. An iconic scene sees the protagonist nearly hit by a crop-duster plane. Starring James Mason, Cary Grant, and Eva Marie Saint, for 10 points, name this 1959 Alfred Hitchcock spy thriller.

The childhood girlfriend of this work’s narrator knifes an elderly woman and is sent away to reform school. Another character in this novel is sent on an errand to allow time for the seduction of Vanita. The narrator of this novel has amnesia until an exile in Sundarban, and later, this novel criticizes the prime minister’s overreach during the Emergency. Its narrator has a large, dripping nose and telepathic powers, which he uses to contact others like him, like Shiva “of the Knees” and “Parvati-the-Witch.” Saleem Sinai and others are the title figures of, for 10 points, what magical realist novel by Salman Rushdie?

This body of water was used to access the Steelyard from Lubeck, a Kontor and member of a noted trading organization on it. The Kingston Emerald was attacked in this sea during the Cod Wars. Both the scuttling of the German High Seas Fleet in the Scapa Flow and the Battle of Dogger Bank were in this sea during WWI. Its Roughs Tower claims to be the Principality of Sealand. The Kiel Canal connects the Baltic Sea to this sea, and the Anglo-Dutch Wars were primarily fought on it. The Hanseatic League often operated in this sea. For 10 points, name this sea between Britain and Norway that is connected to the Atlantic by the English Channel.

One of this man’s paintings features a lightning bolt in the upper left corner, causing the titular horse to twist its neck backwards. Another of his paintings includes an Assyrian fortress in the background, as well as a bed with elephant heads on its corners. A hand protrudes through rubble beneath a kneeling woman in his Greece on the Ruins of Missolonghi. This artist of The Death of Sardanapalus used hats to denote social classes in a work which features a Phrygian cap-clad Marianne. That painting centers on a bare-chested woman waving a French flag amidst the July Revolution. For 10 points, name this artist of Liberty Leading the People.

One of these things began in Lumpkin County, Georgia, and ultimately was the cause of Indian removal. Rabbit Creek was renamed after George Cormack and Skookum Jim began one of these events. Another of these events was initiated on the rancho of New Helvetia (“hel-VEE-shuh”). Participants in one of these events returned on the Excelsior and the Portland. These events prompted the Foreign Miners’ Tax on the Chinese and used a technique called panning. An 1849 discovery at Sutter’s Mill in California prompted one of the largest of these events, which was followed by an explosion in California’s population. For 10 points, name these migrations, often West, to gather a certain precious metal.

Two people with this relationship helped the Argonauts defeat King Amycus and invade the city of Iolcus; those two people were called the Dioscuri. Two people with this relationship turned their half brothers into the Howler Monkey Gods, and defeated a bird demon named Vucub-Caquix, or “Seven-Macaw.” A set of these individuals that escaped the underworld by playing a ballgame was known as the “Hero” example of these entities. One set of these people were suckled by a she-wolf and later founded a city on the Palatine Hill. For 10 points, name this relation shared by the Greek deities Apollo and Artemis.Some of these entities decussate at the bases of pyramidal cells. These cells can form tracts and are divided into commissural, association, and projection fibers. All mechanoreceptors are this type of cell. Some groups of these cells are called ganglia. Reflex arcs are made from two or more of these cells. Grey matter and white matter, which differ in myelin content, are tissues made of these cells. For 10 points, name these cells that comprise the brain and spinal cord and transmit electrical impulses through synapses.

The study of Redology is dedicated to a work set primarily in this city. The aftermath of the Northern Expedition saw this city lose its status as capital. The Macartney expedition unsuccessfully sought to create a British embassy in this city, and the Eight-Nation Alliance occupied it in 1900. In 1937, the Marco Polo Bridge Incident south of this city caused the start of the second Sino-Japanese War. In 1860, British and French soldiers burned the Summer Palace in this capital of the Qing Dynasty. For 10 points, name this home of Tiananmen Square, the current Chinese capital.

Components of this entity classified as beta-spinel and gamma-spinel are wadsleyite and ringwoodite, and it can be studied by examining the compositions of xenoliths. The bottom portion of this entity’s ultra-low velocity D double-prime layer is marked by a seismic velocity discontinuity named after Gutenberg. Largely comprised of olivine, this structure’s upper boundary is the Mohorovicic (Mo-ho-ro-vee-chick) Discontinuity, and its convection currents drive the movements of tectonic plates. For 10 points, name this region of the earth between the crust and the outer core.